---
layout: default
title: Associate Professor of Physics (Quantum Technology)
---
**Department of Physics, Clarendon Laboratory, Parks Road, Oxford**

The Department of Physics and Balliol College are recruiting an Associate Professor (or Professor) of Atomic and Laser Physics (Experimental Quantum Science and Technology). The post will be held in the Department of Physics, together with a Tutorial Fellowship at Balliol College, University of Oxford. This is an opportunity to develop a world-leading research programme in experimental quantum science and technology with atoms, ions, molecules, photons, or similar quantum systems. We aim for a person who can engage strongly with the quantum-technology related activities in Oxford. This includes the prospect for collaborations with research groups in atomic and laser physics and condensed matter physics, associations with the QCI3 quantum Hub, the NQCC in Harwell, and the new Oxford Quantum Institute. The post is available from 1st April 2026, or as soon as possible thereafter.
 
The Associate Professor will develop a world-leading research programme in one of the above areas, teach at undergraduate and graduate levels, and participate in administration of both College and Department. On behalf of the College, they will have responsibility for admission, teaching of undergraduates and support of graduates, and pastoral care of students reading degrees in Physics. They will play a role in the running of the College as a trustee and a member of its Governing Body. 
 
The successful candidate will hold a doctorate in physics or a related subject and will have a proven record of internationally leading research in experimental quantum science and technology. They will be an excellent teacher at undergraduate and graduate level and have excellent written and spoken English and the interpersonal skills necessary to engage with students and colleagues at all levels. 
 
Applications are particularly welcome from women and black and minority ethnic candidates who are under-represented in Oxford academic posts.  All applicants will be judged on merit, according to the selection criteria.
 
Only applications received before 12 noon (UK time) on 5 January 2026, can be considered.  Applicants should ensure that their referees send letters by the same deadline to alpadmin@physics.ox.ac.uk.  
 
Please quote departmental reference 180865 on all correspondence. Shortlisted applicants will be invited to hold a seminar in early 2026, with formal interviews likely to take place in the weeks of 16th and 23rd March 2026. Candidates must be available to travel to Oxford during this period.
 
Enquiries may be made to **Professor Axel Kuhn at axel.kuhn@physics.ox.ac.uk** or **Dr Nicola Trott at senior.tutor@balliol.ox.ac.uk**. All enquiries will be treated in strict confidence and will not form part of the selection decision.
 
Further particulars, containing details of the application procedure and of the duties, may be obtained below.

Pay Scale :	ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR (TF-UNIVERSITY)	Contact Email :	recruitment@physics.ox.ac.uk
Salary (£) :	£58,265 to £77,645 p.a., plus substantial additional benefits

Follow this [link](https://my.corehr.com/pls/uoxrecruit/erq_jobspec_version_4.display_form?p_company=10&p_internal_external=E&p_display_in_irish=N&p_process_type=&p_applicant_no=&p_form_profile_detail=&p_display_apply_ind=Y&p_refresh_search=Y&p_recruitment_id=180865)
for further details.
